# Integrative genomics analysis for identifying risk genes associated with TB

Here we provided several scripts used for statistical analysis and visualization. 


# Summary: 
Genetic components contribute susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB). More than 10 GWASs have reported numerous TB-associated genetic loci. However, the functional effects of genetic variants on TB remains largely unknown. In the present study, by combining a reported GWAS summary dataset (N = 452,264) with 3 independent eQTL datasets (N = 2,242) and other omics datasets downloaded from public databases, we conducted an integrative genomics analysis to highlight SNPs and genes implicated in TB risk, and reveal the cis- and trans-regulatory effects of SNPs on transcriptional abundance. Based on independent biological and technical validations, we prioritized 26 candidate genes with eSNPs significantly associated with gene expression and TB susceptibility simultaneously; such as, CDC16 (rs7987202, rs9590408, and rs948182) and RCN3 (rs2946863, rs2878342, and rs3810194). Based on the network-based enrichment analysis, we found these 26 highlighted genes were jointly connected to exert effects on TB susceptibility. The co-expression patterns among these 26 genes were remarkably changed according to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) infection status, and 20 of 26 genes (76.92%) showed significantly differential expressions between MTB-infected and uninfected mice or cells. Together, we provide 26 highlighted genes as important candidates for TB, which are benefit to molecular studies for functional validation in the future. Our findings shed new insights on the aetiology of TB risk.
